# Pacemaker DCM
## Made by Zaeem Ghauri and others from the SFWRENG 3K04 course

### What is this?
This is the DCM part of the pacemaker project for my SFWRENG 3K04 course at McMaster during my 3rd year. In order to better meet the university's academic dishonesty policy, the code found in this repository is incomplete with vital implementation details removed. The DCM itself is an interface between the user and the pacemaker device, responsible for setting and retrieving parameters that determine the behaviour of the pacemaker. The DCM is implemented entirely in Python using a handful of libraries, most notably Tkinter, PySerial, and Matplotlib. 

### How does it work?
As mentioned before, the pacemaker is responsible for sending and retrieving parameter data to and from the pacemaker. First the user (assuming the role of a patient) must register through the registration page. This page checks to see if the maximum number of users have already been registered and also if username and password are valid. If the user registered successfully they can head over to the login page which checks to see if the username and password matches any other in the database. Once the user logs in they can choose a pacing mode and then set the parameters for that mode. Each parameter input is checked to make sure that the input is valid- makes sense logically and doesn't harm the patient. These parameters can be sent to the pacemaker through serial communication and a specific communication protocol used to pack and unpack bytes. In order to prevent academic dishonesty this communication protocol will not be disclosed. After the user sends these parameters to the pacemaker, the pacemaker echoes them back and the DCM confirms that they are indeed the parameters it sent after which it'll send the parameters back to the pacemaker. If the user wishes to stream the ECG data, they can open the ECG window and stream the atrial and ventricular chamber data in real-time through matplotlib. There are a lot more intricate details such as connecting and populating each DCM window that I haven't talked about.

### How do I use it?
You don't. In order to use this program to its fullest potential you will need a custom pacemaker programming kit (provided by the university), the code for that pacemaker (developed by my other team mates), and the full-working code for the DCM. Lets say you did have all these components, in that case you shouldn't need to worry about this code, you already have your own. Ok, lets also say that you wanted to see what a 100 on this course project looked like (true story, shout out to my 3K04 team for their hard work), then first thing you would do is connect the pacemaker to your PC running the DCM. From there, login (if you have already registered) and you'll be greeted to the main DCM page where users can find diagnostic information, view the ECG, or set parameters. If you would like to set the parameters, first select the mode you would like to modify with the "choose pacing mode" button. Then set the parameters with valid data and press update. If the update was a success you should see a message informing you of such at the bottom of the window. If you would like to see the ECG data, simply press the the "E-Gram" button which will open up a new window from which you can choose to stream data from the atrial, ventricular, or both chambers. If you would like to exit the DCM, simply close the E-Gram window and then press the "end session" button in the top right of the main DCM window.


### Visit [my website](https://zaeem2001.github.io/projects/dcm.html) to see my project in action!
